# Infernal Sorceries

The Dark Reflection is a horrible place from which few things escape. But its
reach and grasp can be felt far outside the ashen pits of Limbo itself. Infernal
Sorceries are those magics that manipulate and harness the taint of that parched
landscape and turn them to one's own advantage.

The magic from Limbo is a lot like fire. It is also quite specifically malicious
and it corrupts things it touches. When clean water is nearby, it discolors
slightly as if ash had fallen into it. A skilled exorcist can track the power
and location of magic from the Dark Reflection by consulting distilled water in
a clear container. When Infernal Sorceries are cast they can be doused by
throwing sand on them. Reasonably clean sand must be used - ground up silicon
dioxide works. By the time the sand hits the floor it has been replaced by white
and black sand.

## Descent of Entropy
_Everything ends the same way: it no longer matters and no longer persists._

The fires of Limbo have long dulled and all there is left is misery and ash.
Those who delve into the knowledge of entropy learn grim ends of human nature
and command the power of wickedness to compel disease agents to action. To those
who follow this path, the inevitable unraveling brought about by time appears
entirely normal and expected. A student of the Descent of Entropy gains a +2
bonus to diagnose an ailment, reconstruct an event from evidence, or repair an
object that has fallen apart. These bonuses increase to +4 at Advanced and +6
with Elder Descent of Entropy.

### Basic Descent of Entropy

**Abyss of the Body** The character carries hideous diseases that can be foisted
upon others with a touch, a bite, or a kiss. A character with Abyss of the Body
is not themselves affected by disease, and they can carry all manners of normal
plagues and pass them normally. In addition, each character who has Abyss of the
Body can voluntarily transmit a purely magical disease. The disease they have at
their disposal to use voluntarily is chosen when the discipline is learned. A
character inflicted by additional magical diseases is still immune, but has no
control of its transmission. Abyss of the Body can be learned multiple times to
control multiple diseases. When spreading a disease voluntarily the character
achieves physical contact and uses Strength + Survival or Charisma + Medicine
against the victim's Strength, with net hits reducing the disease's DOT Delay.
The spreading of disease can be dispelled with sand, but the immunity to disease
of the character is passive, covert, and impervious to dispelling.

| Disease | Delay | Effects |
|:--------|:-----:|:--------|
| Chud | 5 | Victim dissolves into white goo. |
| Cooties | 3\* | Victim driven mad with lust. |
| Doom Flies | 8 | Victim eaten up by maggots, explodes into swarm of flies. |
| Rage Virus | 3 | Victim transforms into Soulless. |
| Thing Infection | 11 | Victim fills up with roots, Triffid bursts out of their husk. |
| Z-Virus | No Damage | When Victim dies, it rises as a Shambler. |

**Light of Ennui** The character becomes a beacon of apathy and despair, foiling
attempts by those caught in the metaphorical glow to care. The character makes a
Charisma + Artisan or Charisma + Empathy test against the Willpowers of everyone
within close range. Everyone affected is unable to muster an emotional response
to much of anything. Frenzy doesn't happen, and all appeals to emotion and even
magically created emotions fail unless the speaking character can muster more
hits than the Light of Ennui. Lighting or dousing the Light of Ennui is a free
action. The Light of Ennui sheds literal light in the Dark Reflection, and is
enough to see by.

### Advanced Descent of Entropy

**Aura of Decay** When the Aura of Decay is activated, things fall apart into
grime and dust. This can be directed somewhat, but generally anything within a
few meters of the Character will degrade as if left unattended for days and
weeks in mere moments. Objects that are literally on the person of someone will
not be devastated by decay unless the character focuses in on them and marks
them for destruction. The character can focus in and make a Strength + Artisan
or Charisma + Medicine test against a target's Intuition to corrode a specific
person's equipment as a Complex action. Activating or deactivating the Aura of
Decay is a Simple Action. Normally it is far too slow to affect a fast moving
object, but by spending a power point, the speed of corrosion can be enhanced to
the point where it will tear items out of the air before the reach the
character. Disposing of an incoming thrown piece of wood is easy (threshold 1),
stopping bullets is hard (threshold 3), and corroding one's self a path through
being otherwise run over by a truck is crazy extreme (threshold 5).

**Contradiction** The character can tempt a victim into doing something they
would never do, something wildly against their nature. The character can make an
opposed Charisma + Artisan or Charisma + Bureaucracy test against the victim's
Willpower. This takes conversational time, and is absolutely powerless to
convince someone to do something that they are merely moderately opposed to.
Contradiction is covert.

### Elder Descent of Entropy

**Howl of the Abyss** A scream of unutterable anguish permeates the Material
World and the Dark Reflection for a round. The fires of Limbo belch into the
material world. Smoke and ash blows through cracks in the world. And Mirror
Goblins spew forth in a brutal wave. The character spends five power points and
a Complex Action to makes a Charisma + Artisan or Charisma + Bureaucracy test. A
number of Mirror Goblins show up equal to the square of the number of hits. Any
other creatures within a few meters of the character's location in either the
Shallow or Deep Limbo may attempt to escape to the Material World as well.

**Wind of Pestilence** Black winds carry ghastly plagues that doom everyone they
touch. Everything the shadowy air caresses is exposed to a magical ailment of
the character's choice. The winds come out as either a cone that extends for a
hundred meters per point of Potency or as a circular maelstrom that is twenty
meters in radius per point of Potency at the character's option. The character
spends four power points and Complex Action to make either a Strength + Artisan
or Charisma + Medicine test. Potential victims may resist with their Strength,
and the character can nominate one target per hit to be avoided by the gale.

## Names of the Blasphemies
_It is hubris of the first order to name that which is not known._

There are words that should not be spoken. Mostly, these are the names of
ancient unspeakable evils. And the _reason_ these evils are unspeakable is
because they will hear you if you speak about them. Upon learning each ability
from this discipline, the character is able to choose for themselves a True
Name. Abilities that function based upon the character's name only respond to
that name, no matter what they refer to themselves as. A character with Basic
Names of the Blasphemies can see creatures and objects in the Shallow Limbo,
although they do not physically interact with them. With Advanced, the character
knows the name of anyone they see an accurate picture of, and with Elder they
know the name of anyone they see (regardless of disguises).

### Basic Names of the Blasphemies

**Learn the Heart's Pain** By concentrating for a Simple Action, the character
can know the limits of a person's psyche. The character makes a Charisma +
Empathy or Intuition + Larceny test, gaining knowledge of the subject. Using
this power is covert. It can only be used once per scene on each other creature.

| Hits | Knowledge Gained |
|:----:|:-----------------|
| 1 | The target's Master Passion, if any (humans usually have no Master Passion) |
| 2 | The target's Driving Passion |
| 3 | General details of the target (such as career and name) |
| 4 | Specific details of the target's hopes and dreams |
| 5 | Intimate details of the target's life that the target barely even cares about. |

**Poison Heart** The character fills the target's heart with a litany of lies.
By spending a Complex action, the character makes an opposed Charisma + Empathy
or Intuition + Larceny test against the target's Willpower and if successful
causes the target to feel intense feelings of betrayal and disappointment. If
the character knows the target's Master Passion, they can incite a Frenzy. If
the character knows the target's Driving Passion, they can make them bitterly
sullen and full of the feelings of failure (suffering a morale penalty to skill
tests until the end of the scene). And if the names of any of the target's
friends and loved ones are known, the target can be made to distrust them.
Strength of any frenzies, depressions, or misgivings are the number of net hits.
This ability is covert.

### Advanced Names of the Blasphemies

**Bind the Name** By knowing a creature's name, the character can bind them in
Limbo, making it even more improbable that they could escape. This binding costs
five power points and takes a Complex action, but can work at any distance. The
character makes an Intuition + Empathy or Charisma + Bureaucracy test and the
threshold to escape the Dark Reflection is increased for the target by the
number of hits. Only the most powerful Name Bindings applies to a target if more
than one are applied. The Name Binding can be dispelled at the point in space it
was literally invoked, not at the bound target.

**Banishment** The character hurls a victim they can see into the Dark
Reflection. The character spends a Complex Action and a power point, and makes
an opposed Intuition + Larceny or Charisma + Bureaucracy test against the
target's Intuition to send them into the Dark Reflection. If three net hits are
made, the target can be sent into the Deep Limbo. If the character has Elder
Names of the Blasphemies, this ability can be used on several targets at once,
targeting up to one creature per point of Charisma.

### Elder Names of the Blasphemies

**The Truest Name** Any time any creature speaks the character's name anywhere
in the world, the character hears it and the next snippet of conversation the
creature utters (usually amounting to a twitter feed, more or less). If the name
is spoken three times in succession, the nearest mirror in the material world to
the speaking creature becomes a portal to the nearest mirror in the dark
reflection to the character. The character can make a Intuition + Stealth or
Charisma + Bureaucracy test to reduce the threshold to cross that portal by the
number of hits. This ability is covert and continuous. The creation of a mirror
portal can be dispelled, but the rest of the effects cannot.

**The Great Unbinding** The character summons a Demon. It is a professional
grade task to summon one of the Asura (threshold 2), it is totally extreme to
summon an Akuma (threshold 4), and it is flat super human to summon one of the
Ifrit (threshold 6). If the character knows the name of a specific entity, they
may attempt to summon that one in particular to the material world, and the
threshold is reduced by 1. If a proposed target's escape threshold is higher
than the summoning threshold, use that threshold instead of the base. The Great
Unbinding uses Intuition + Empathy or Charisma + Bureaucracy. It takes an hour,
and can also be used to spring any specific creature whose name is known from
the shallow or deep Dark Reflection. A creature that for whatever reason does
not wish to go is permitted a Social Resistance test.

## Progress of Glass
"_We do not always see where we go. But we always go._"

The Progress of Glass is a path of Infernal sorcery that deeply investigates the
connections between existence and the Dark Reflection. Followers of the Progress
of Glass are able to handle different perspectives very easily - some would say
that they have already driven themselves mad. In any case, spending so long
gazing into mirrors has left them able to write in mirror writing or use
reflections for targeting without penalty. Also they end up being very good at
driving. A user of the Progress of Glass gains a +2 bonus on Driving tests, a
bonus that increases to +4 with Advanced and +6 with Elder Progress of Glass.

### Basic Progress of Glass

**Distant Reflection** The character can peer into a reflective surface and see
what is reflected off of another reflective surface elsewhere. The character
must be within 100 meters per point of Potency of both surfaces, and must have a
pretty good idea of where both surfaces are (and yeah, they have to be able to
see at least one of them). Using Distant Reflection requires a Logic +
Operations check or an Intuition + Perception check. The expected time to get
the vision is an hour, but net hits reduce the timeframe.

**Deny the Gauntlet** The character can remove the difficulties in moving across
gateways into and out of the Dark Reflection. The character spends a Simple
Action and makes a Logic + Operations or Intuition + Stealth test and the
gauntlet is removed for a specific gateway for a Round. Net hits increase the
timeframe. The gauntlet is not hampered for purposes of keeping creatures held
in Limbo by Name Bindings.

### Advanced Progress of Glass

**Mirror Pocket** The character can create and subsequently access a virtual
space within a reflective surface. Things can be stored in and retrieved from
the mirror pocket with relatively little fuss. This looks like a cartoon
activity: the character's had passes into the surface causing it to ripple
slightly and then some object is left within or drawn out - in either case
demonstrably having more volume than the mirror possibly could. Creating a
pocket costs two power points, but putting things in or taking things out is
free. The character makes a Logic + Operations or Intuition + Stealth check and
the mirror pocket has a depth of 20 cm per hit. If the character has Elder
Progress of Glass, the depth is 50 cm per hit. A character can maintain multiple
mirror pockets in different reflective surfaces, but not in the same one.

**Rain of Glass** Shards of blackened, jagged glass rain down and tear the flesh
from the bones of everyone in the area. A Rain of Glass can be sent out as a
cone up to 30 meters in length per Potency, or fly out in all directions to
cover a cylinder centered on the character with a radius of 10 meters per
Potency. Using this ability costs a power point and takes a Complex Action. It
does a base damage of 3, which is increased with the hits on either an Agility +
Combat or Logic + Operations check and the damage is resisted like a normal
explosion (including the additional protective effects of cover).

### Elder Progress of Glass

**Doppelgänger** A reflection is given life and given the task of supplanting
the original person. The character makes a Logic + Expression or Intuition +
Perception check, spends a Complex Action and seven power points and then the
Doppelgänger takes form by spending a Complex Action crawling out of the
mirrored surface upon which the reflection was cast. It then sets about
attempting to murder the original and then take over their life. The
Doppelgänger is wicked and generally under the command of the character's. When
a victim has a Doppelgänger created of them, neither they nor the duplicate cast
a reflection until one of them is dead. The double has the base attributes of
the target, and the degree of mimicry is set by the number of hits. The
Doppelgänger can be suppressed or dispelled before it successfully crawls out of
the mirror, but once it does so it is a "real" person (albeit one having no
reflection), and cannot be dispelled with sand. Its presence still offends clear
water as Infernal sorcery is want to do, but even that effect fades if the
Doppelgänger succeeds in slaying its original and gains a reflection of its own.

| Hits | Effects |
|:----:|:--------|
| 1 | Extra, no supernatural powers, memories, or even coherent speech. |
| 2 | Can speak like the victim. |
| 3 | Has an Edge stat if the victim does. |
| 4 | Has the memories of the target. |
| 5 | Is a starting supernatural of the type of the victim if the victim is supernatural. |
| 6 | Has a Potency of the victim or the character (whichever is less), has disciplines that the target has. |

**The Smoking Mirror** The character controls the vertical and the horizontal.
The character spends a Complex Action and three power points so they can
determine what is seen and heard for the rest of the scene. The area covered is
limited to Line of Sight, and extends out to 30 meters per point of Potency. The
character makes a Stealth + Intuition or Logic + Operations check and observers
can only see through the illusion if they get an equal number of hits on an
Intuition + Perception test.

## Song of Swarms
"_I'd like to help, but I'm covered in bees._"

Insects are kind of creepy at the best of times, but in the horror genre they
actually are a source of wickedness and danger. This is borne out in After
Sundown, achieved in no small part by Infernal Sorcery. The Song of the Swarm is
that sorcery and it has a great deal of internal synergy, many of the abilities
within it make other abilities more useful. Being able to send insects where you
want them is more useful if you can see what the insects see, and so on and so
forth. Having Song of the Swarm allows you to treat crustaceans as if they were
smart animals like parrots or dogs for the purposes of Animal Ken. Insect bites
to creatures inside insect swarms are usually not much to report on, causing
just Damage 1 strikes even en mass, although these strikes do not require a
to-hit roll and are not dodged. Anything special that happens with the
character's unarmed attacks apply with their insects (especially of note is the
Lure of Destruction and the Descent of Entropy).

### Basic Song of Swarms

**Body Colony** The character's body has bugs growing inside it. In addition to
being really gross, they can also fly out of the character's body and crawl back
in without causing any lasting damage. The bugs growing in the character's body
do pretty much what the character wills them to do, so they can follow much more
complex routes than a normal bug of their type. The bugs from a character can
swarm one person at a time or carry very small objects. They take an entire
round to crawl into or out of the character's body, but they take no actions to
direct. The Body Colony is passive and cannot be dispelled.

**Small Witness** The character can see through the eyes of insects in their
vicinity. The character can see through the eyes of a bug that is within a meter
of their body, and can continue to see through its eyes even if the character or
the bug moves away, so long as they remain within a kilometer per Potency. A
character can maintain a number of small witnesses equal to their Intuition
score simultaneously and suffers no penalties from distraction. The character
can make their own Perception tests through the senses of the bugs. Small
Witness has 3 hits for purposes of being dispelled. It is covert.

### Advanced Song of Swarms

**Magnify the Swarm** When there are insects in the area, the character can draw
upon the magic of Limbo to cause a great number of comparable insects to wriggle
into reality. The character spends a Complex Action and a power point, then
makes a Charisma + Animal Ken or Willpower + Survival test and every hit allows
them to pretty much swarm everything and everyone in a 10m cube. If the
character has Elder Song of Swarms, the area may be increased to a 100m cube per
hit.

**Swarm Body** The character's body breaks into a cloud of insects of roughly
the same mass as the character. This is a Protean discipline. The deaths of
individual bugs do not meaningfully affect the character, but the deaths of very
large numbers may seriously hurt them. When they reform, every 10% of the
original swarm unable to make it translate to a lethal wound. The Swarm body can
be dispelled as if it had 3 hits, and however many insects are on hand at the
time will coalesce into the original character (with accompanying wounds if not
all the insects are available for the forced change). When the Swarm Body ends,
whether voluntarily or through being dispelled, the character can elect to
materialize anywhere that some of their bugs are, but any bugs unable to reach
their new position within 12 seconds die (and the character suffers proportional
wounds).

### Elder Song of Swarms

**Gold and Honey** The insects of the character's can and do build things on
their behalf. Bugs perform strange alchemy, devouring things and transforming
the material itself into virtually anything that is desired. The character can
make a Charisma + Animal Ken or Logic + Artisan test to make things of
astonishing complexity, and a Logic + Electronics test to modify or assemble
electronics. Gold and Honey is a reflexive action, and the swarm works at the
speed of a group of competent contractors. The bug can also "assemble" things
into piles of dust if desired, in order to burrow through walls, destroy
valuables, or simply to hide evidence. The character can make a Charisma +
Sabotage check to speed such processes.

**Riot** The swarms of humanity are as quick to anger as those of ants or bees.
The character can incite violence and destruction on the part of normal people,
erupting entire neighborhoods into senseless or even slightly directed anger and
devastation. A riot generally requires about an hour to cook off, but the
character can make a Willpower + Intimidate or  Charisma + Sabotage check to
reduce the timeframe. The waves of bitterness and anger extend out to up to 200
meters per point of Potency, and are no less effective in highly populated
areas. Indeed, a "riot" in a dense city is generally far more effective because
there are so many more humans doing the rioting. Inciting the Riot is covert,
but rampaging people are generally pretty obvious.

## Walk of Flame
"_People running around. Skin on fire. It's beautiful._"

Fire is likely the dividing line between man and beast. And yet while it is
undeniable that fire provides light and warmth, protection from the monsters of
the darkness and the forging of bricks and steel - that's mostly a facet of
_technology_. Magical fire is a terrifying thing that rages at the limits of
control and burns things down to ash. Firestarters in After Sundown are of
course based largely on Carrie, and it is unsurprising therefore that fire magic
spends a lot more time spreading panic and a lot less time smelting iron than
controlled industrial fires do. The Walk of Flame draws strength from the Dark
Reflection. A character with Walk of Flame gains a +2 bonus on Sabotage tests.
This bonus increases to +4 with Advanced Walk of Flame, and +6 with Elder.

### Basic Walk of Flame

**Fire Walking** The character hardens themselves against the flames and no
longer burns. This does not protect them from shrapnel propelled by an
explosion, but does protect them from any wounds caused by heat itself. Use of
this power is entirely reflexive. Fire Walking is passive and covert, and cannot
be dispelled.

**Hand of Flame** The character can conjure up flame in their hand, varying it
in intensity from a lighter flame raising from an extended finger to a 30 cm
inferno in their palm. The fire does not burn the hand it sprouts out of (the
waves of heat move away), but the user is otherwise not protected from the fire
or fires they start. Calling, changing the intensity, or extinguishing of the
flame is a Simple action that costs nothing. The fire can inflict as much as the
character's Logic attribute in fire damage. Hand of Flame is a touch attack, but
does not actually get additional damage for net hits.

### Advanced Walk of Flame

**Fire Starter** The character concentrates momentarily and something bursts
into flame. Alternately, the character may have a bolt or ball of flame fly from
some part of their body to explode at the target. Either way, the flames inflict
the character's Logic attribute in damage, and are resolved as a ranged attack
targeted with Agility + Combat or Logic + Research. The flames can go out to the
limit of vision, but the attack becomes inaccurate outside of Short range.
Damage is increased with net hits as normal, but due to the sheer size of the
fire compared to a bullet; cover is especially helpful for the target - as if
the attack itself were an explosion affecting only them. Using this discipline
is a Simple Action.

**Flames of Panic** By spending a power point, the character sends waves of
terror into crowds of people. This magic affects every creature that the
character can literally see, other than themselves (which means that they can
shape its effects by voluntarily closing one eye, for example). The character
rolls Logic + Intimidation or Agility + Survival, and each affected creature
makes a Willpower Resistance Test. Targets are panicked and stampede around
irrationally for one round for each net hit of the caster.

### Elder Walk of Flame

**Hell Storm** By spending four power points and a Complex Action, the character
can fill a tremendous area with hellish fire. The flames inflict a base damage
equal to the character's Logic attribute, and are resolved as an explosion with
a base radius of fifty meters per point of Potency. The explosion can be
targeted at a specific place or person as a ranged attack using Logic + Research
or Agility + Combat. Remember that the damage is increased by 2 for whoever is
actually unlucky enough to be at ground zero.

**Scorch the Gateway** By spending three power points and a Complex Action, the
character can enhance a fire magically such that it leaves a gateway from the
mortal world to the Dark Reflection (and back) in its wake. By concentrating on
the fire the character can attune the resultant portal to one specific creature
for each Complex Action spent concentrating (until the character runs out of
names or the fire burns out and the way manifests). The character may then make
a Logic + Research + Potency or Willpower + Intimidate + Potency roll, and all
attuned creatures get a bonus die to escape through the gate for each hit.
