# Magic

## The Limits of Magic
_"She made me into a newt!"_

Magic in a told story does not need to have _explicit_ limits defined for it
because it has _implicit_ limits of whatever it is that magic happens to do in
the story. One can assume that many of the things that magic never did in the
narrative were actually outside of its capabilities for one reason or another
and that it all worked out somehow. A novel or a movie does not have to tell you
that an evil magic car _can't_ turn into a giant robot, the fact that it
_doesn't_ is sufficient for the purposes of the medium. However in a _role
playing game_ this is absolutely not the case. Since magic is going to be used
in creative, goal oriented ways by multiple story contributors (which is a nice
way of saying "people are going to push magic as far as it will go into
unintended directions in an effort to gain personal advantage"), it is
imperative that what magic is specifically capable (and by extension _not_
capable) of doing be codified.

Magic in After Sundown comes in several flavors. The first and most obvious kind
is "Inherent Magic." This is the stuff that supernatural creatures can do just
because of what they are. A golem doesn't need to  know anything special to be
able to lift and throw a car, it just does it. The fact that it is a golem gives
it the inherent magic to have supernaturally powerful strength. All supernatural
creatures have some form of inherent magic and they get more of it as time goes
on. The next kind of magic to discuss is "Sorcery." This is a type of magic that
is explicitly learned and comes from elsewhere. 

Every supernatural type has some inherent magic associated with it. Even though
a Transhuman may have been granted all of their power from a mystic ritual that
looks suspiciously like Sorcery, once they have attained that status they are
able to use many of their abilities without having to remember mystical formulas
or speak arcane words. The Invisible Man can fade from view without "doing"
anything, and it is this point which makes his signature Invisibility power an
inherent rather than sorcerous one. These magical abilities come in distinct
groups called Universal Powers. On the other hand, Dr. West is a Khaibit and his
signature power to raise the dead requires mystical effort on his part, and that
makes it a sorcerous rather than inherent power. 

Thematically speaking, sorcery is magical knowledge. Thus, much of it is newly
researched and much of it can be discovered from ancient texts. Practically
speaking, this doesn't really matter. There is plenty of powerful magic that has
been lost and plenty more that has yet to be discovered. Sorcerous magic falls
into one of three categories, regardless of whether it is new or old. These are
Astral, Infernal, and Orphic. Supernatural creatures have the same power
sources, and they are inherently resistant to  sorceries with the same power
source as themselves (gaining a +3 bonus to any resistance test they are
allowed).

Magic can be detected by various means specific to whether it is Astral,
Infernal, or Orphic. And when creatures who are personally one of those types
use Universal Powers they can be detected as if they were using magic of that
type. So if a Frankenstein (an Orphic creature) uses Devastation to lift a car
it is an Orphic Magical Action and can be detected by the browning of nearby
leaves; while an Android (an Infernal creature) doing the same thing would be an
Infernal Magical Action that could be detected by the clouding of clear water.

## Detecting Magic
_"No way. No way nohow."_

Sorcery and witchcraft doesn't "just happen" it requires a great deal of evil
knowledge and a fair amount of effort. And indeed that exertion can be detected
and the efforts unraveled. Those in the know can detect and track the use of
spells and sorcery by their effects on certain elements of the world.

Magic has definite effects on the physical world, and can be detected through
careful observation of its effects. When a creature activates a discipline,
characters with the right equipment and knowhow can spot the power surge with a
Dowsing Test. A Dowsing Test can always be Intuition + Perception, but dowsing
for Astral Magic can also be Logic + Operations, dowsing for Infernal Magic can
also be Logic + Survival, and dowsing for Orphic Magic can also be Charisma +
Animal Ken. In general, the threshold to notice magic at normal range is 2, and
the threshold to give a good directionality to where the magic was used is 4.
Mostly, Basic Powers are detectable to Way Out Range, Advanced Powers or the
expenditure of 3 or more power points are detectable to Extreme Range, and Elder
Powers or the expenditure of 5 power points are detectable out to Remote Range.
The expenditure of more than 5 power points at once is detectable out to as many
kilometers.

* **Clean Water:** Clean water is pure and healthy and brings joy and solace. It
  is very much inimical to the magic of the Dark Reflection, which causes clear
  water to be come darkened momentarily as if it was tainted with soot. An
  experienced douser can track the strength and direction of the use of Infernal
  sorcery by the darkness, apparent direction, and persistence of the image of
  taint in otherwise clear water.
* **Flowers:** Orphic Sorcery is bad for you. Like polonium or something. But
  for big creatures it's really not something you'd notice without years of
  exposure, leaving the really observable effects to the very most fragile of
  lifeforms - those who would soon die in any case. And while one _could_ tote
  around a bag full of mayflies or the like, most people in the know who want to
  track necromancers choose to use potted plants. A flower that blooms and dies
  every day is of course ideal, as it has a high responsiveness and gives good
  directionality.
* **Magnets:** Astral Sorcery has a noticeable, if weird, affect on magnetic
  fields. You can track Astral Sorcery and gauge its power with a lodestone.
  Natural magnetite reacts more strongly than an electro-magnet for whatever
  reason, so experienced geomancers seriously carry a black rock on a string
  when they want to find dream sorcerers.

## Countering Magic

In addition to being able to _detect_ magic by it's physical effects, you can
also _counter_ magic with the right physical material.

Throwing a handful of whatever appropriate powder at a source of magic is a
Simple Action, and involves making an Intuition + Rigging or Agility + Athletics
test, reducing the effective hits of the original casting by the hits gained.
Once used to counter magic, the powder is completely spoiled. You can't sweep it
up and use it again. While this is technically sorcery itself, it can be taught
to any Luminary or supernatural creature in moments - you literally just reach
into the bag, throw a handful of the stuff at the magic with intent to nullify,
and it generally works pretty well. A Discipline that is dispelled completely is
suppressed and cannot be reactivated for the rest of the scene.

* **Salt:** Salt draws water into itself and preserves food. Things treated with
  salt remain clean and non-poisonous long after untreated objects blacken and
  stink with putrescence. Thrown at Astral magic it draws the wetness and poison
  of the sorcery into itself and dampens it.
* **Sand:** The fires of Limbo burn ceaselessly, but they _are_ still fires.
  Clean sand thrown upon them douses them - cutting off the source of wicked
  Infernal sorcery.
* **Seeds:** Representing the promise of new life and the growth of great
  strength from humble origins, the seed is a key ritual component in
  practically every mortal magical tradition ever devised. And indeed, throwing
  it on Orphic magic results in the nullification of both.

## Disciplines

Disciplines come in Universal and Sorcery types. Universal Disciplines are
mystically expanded abilities (which can be mental, physical, or social), while
Sorceries represent magical knowledge that allows the character to do new things
with evil magic. The distinction is pretty subtle, but basically Sorceries can
be learned, taught, found in a book, and detected, while a Universal power "just
happens". Sorcerous Disciplines are further divided into Astral, Infernal, and
Orphic Sorceries. They are in some manner connected to one of the otherworlds,
and their use can be detected and countered based on that connection.

Disciplines are fairly broad and often times represent many different paths to
power that are grouped together game mechanically because that's playable.
Nevertheless, to represent the different approaches that magic responds to,
every power with a dicepool to activate presents two different dice pools that
they can be activated with.

Sorcerous Disciplines are different from Universal Disciplines in many ways.
While they still retain the essential framework of Basic, Advanced, and Elder
versions, Sorcery doesn't "just happen". It can be potentially _countered_
because it takes the form of actual manipulations of magical energies associated
with one of the three mystical worlds being used and directed. Sorcerous
disciplines work poorly when used against creatures with the same power source
as their power source world, and have means by which they can be held at bay
with means specific to the type of magic that they are.

#### Disciplines Levels

There are three levels of achievement within each Discipline: **Basic**,
**Advanced**, and **Elder**. A character must have at least one Basic ability in
a Discipline before they can learn an Advanced ability of that Discipline. A
character must have at least one Advanced ability in a Discipline before they
can learn an Elder ability of that Discipline. Abilities within a Discipline are
otherwise unordered. A character can learn any Basic ability and then learn
another Basic ability or skip to learning an Advanced ability. Standard
characters begin play with only Basic and Advanced abilities. A Devotion is a
special Advanced ability that belongs to two different Disciplines and requires
that a character have at least one Basic ability from both in order to be
learned.

#### Protean Powers

Some powers are Protean abilities: ones that change the character's form. A
character who knows any Protean secrets can return to their real form with a
Complex action and a power point even if they have been transformed by hostile
magic. Furthermore, if a character has multiple Protean abilities, they may
activate more than one simultaneously, and the entire transformation takes the
action of the longest transformation. So if the character has two different
abilities that both take a Complex Action, they may activate both as a single
Complex Action.
